protocolID	protocolType	protocolName	protocolDescription
RMT_Target	SamplingEffort	target trawls on acoustically detected aggregations	Fish were caught using Rectangular Midwater Trawl nets (RMT 8 + 1), consisting of a RMT 1 mounted above a RMT 8 with a mouth area of 1 and 8m2 and a cod end mesh size of 0.33 and 0.85mm, respectively. Target trawls were not pre-planned and were aimed at acoustically detected aggregations. The net was lowered to the depth of the aggregation, and opened and closed remotely.Towing speed was approximately 2.5 knots (4.5 km h-1).
RMT_Routine	SamplingEffort	Pre-planned routine hauls with standard double oblique tow	Fish were caught using Rectangular Midwater Trawl nets (RMT 8 + 1), consisting of a RMT 1 mounted above a RMT 8 with a mouth area of 1 and 8m2 and a cod end mesh size of 0.33 and 0.85mm, respectively. Routine hauls consisted of a standard double oblique tow from the surface down to 200 m and back again to the surface. Towing speed was approximately 2.5 knots (4.5 km h-1).
stomach_content	Measurement	stomach content	Formalin preserved samples and a small subsample of stomachs taken from a few larger frozen fish designated for energy measurements were analysed in the lab. Stomach content was analysed according to the method described in Pakhomov et al. (1996). Results from stomach content analyses were expressed as a percentage of each food item of the total number of food items counted (N, %)
dry_mass_and_energy_content	Measurement	Dry mass and energy content	Dry mass and energy content was determined from frozen specimens. To prevent errors due to the loss of body fluids during dissection, water and energy contents were determined for whole individuals only. Only for the few larger specimens caught, stomach content was analyzed before desiccation. Frozen fish were thawed, blotted dry and total wet weight (WW) was determined to the nearest mg. Fish were freeze-dried until complete desiccation (constant mass). After drying, they were re-weighed to determine the total dry weight (DW). Water content was calculated as the difference between WW and DW, expressed as %WW. Individual DW and WW energy content, expressed as kJ g-1, was determined by an isoperibol bomb calorimeter calibrated with benzoic acid. After homogenizing, either the whole fish or a subsample (0.1–0.6 g) was used for calorimetry, depending on the size of the fish.
ctd	Measurement	CTD	The RMT net used for sampling was equipped with a CTD, providing detailed data on conductivity, temperature (C1), salinity (PSU), pressure (dBar) and fluorescence. (Gorton, 2006)
light_conditions	Measurement	solar azimuth, elevation and day length	solar azimuth, elevation and day length were calculated as a measurement of light conditions, according to a procedure used by NOAA (Cornwall, 2007).
